Response for week 4

The reading of this week allow me to explore the relationship between technology, design and physicality. The physical aspect of letters while it’s perceived by our eyes it’s conditioned by the habits and experience we have accumulated during individual process of acquiring visual knowledge in an ongoing bases. The thickness of this component, rather than been symbolic and more bring back the material aspect of language that plays an active role.  While we engage in reading a document we also engage in running our eyes to a form for instance to a way of perceiving knowledge. The reading of this week help me to  focus in the ideas and history that have created the physical image of letters. This recognition is tremendously important for the cultures that did not have alphabetic writing as a technology. Typography help to see and include aspect that history based on historical event that are more tied to social phenomena emphasis. 

The changes she explained are in part of each period of history, aesthetics and politics. However as these are discursive and ideological aspects of the sociality of letters, the role these letters played is embodied not only in the form but also in the way they have circulated. Maybe a more important aspect of this materiality and technology is placed in the making of typographic machines or designs. Por example she points out that “In the early 90s, as digital design tools began supporting the seamless reproduction and integration of media, many designers grew dissatisfies with clean, unsullied surfaces, seeking instead to plunge the letter into the harsh and caustic work of physical processes. Letters, which for centuries had sought perfection in ever more exam technologies, became scratched, bent, bruised, and polluted.” How dissatisfaction was frame in the remaking of technology used to make typographic machines? Was this part of and ongoing desire to perfection or goals more orientes to circulation? or the economics aspect of machines or resources available? As the book points out shifts and changes in the use and design of each kind of later for example the typeface of Beowulf. Letters were created in a particular historical context transfer specific messages when they use in literary traditions. 

This is an aspect of typography that is crucial to consider in my own work that focus in non European Languages. For example: When you open Doctrina Cristiana published in 1584 in Lima, you find pages written in Aymara, Quechua and Spanish. The two native languages are positioned at the bottom of the pages, under the centered text in Spanish, Quechua on the left and Aymara on the right. This location reflects the fact that the primary language of the book is Spanish, centered and at the top. It also indexes that the ideal reader would look first at the top center and then move down to a space shared by Quechua and Aymara. Through this implicit movement of reading, a language hierarchy is established. Spanish is at the top of the page, constructing a visual effect in the relationship of these three languages. 
This marks the beginning of a habit of practice and thought that would not only persist in the context of books, but also establish a pattern in the recognition of Spanish as occupying its own proprietary space, while other languages share the space that remains. Through this geometrical and visual distribution, the pages of this book create an effect of memory and habit that would affect the identification and evaluation of languages. 
